A dataframe is a python data structure that allows us to work and visualize data very easily.
The first thing we need to do is to understand the structure of the data. We find key information about it on its website.
There are 699 rows in total, belonging to 699 patients
The first column is an ID that identifies each patient.
The following 9 columns are features that express different types of information connected to the detected tumors. They represent data related to: Clump Thickness, Uniformity of Cell Size, Uniformity of Cell Shape, Marginal Adhesion, Single Epithelial Cell Size, Bare Nuclei, Bland Chromatin, Normal Nucleoli and Mitoses.
The last column is the class of the tumor and it has two possible values: 2 means that the tumor was found to be benign. 4 means that it was found to be malignant.
We are told as well that there are a few rows that contain missing data. The missing data is represented in the data-set with the ? character.
Out of the 699 patients in the dataset, the class distribution is: Benign: 458 (65.5%) and Malignant: 241 (34.5%)
This is useful information that allows us to achieve some conclusions.
Our objective will be to train our neural network to predict if a tumor is benign or malignant, based on the features provided by the data.
The input to the network will be made of the 9 features, the 9 columns that express different features of the tumors.
We will not make use of the first column that holds the ID of the patient.
We will eliminate from the data-set any rows that contain missing data (identified with the ? character).
In binary classification scenarios, It’s good to have a good percentage of data from both classes. We have a 65%-35% distribution, which is good enough.
The benign and malignant classes are identified with the digits 2 and 4. The last layer of our network outputs values between 0 and 1 through its Sigmoid function. Furthermore, neural networks tend to work better when data is set in that range, from 0 to 1. We will therefore change the values of the class columns to hold a 0 instead of a 2 for benign cases and a 1 instead of a 4 for malignant cases. (we could also scale the output of the Sigmoid instead).
